Create backup-artifact-checklist.md (#86)
dwarvesf/playbook: operations/checklists/backup-artifact-checklist.md

---
- tags: 
  - people
  - operations

>   - checklist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - checklist
  - delivery
```

- title: "Checklist: Back up Artifact"
- date: 2024-07-22

> - description: To make sure that project’s progress is aligned with the team plan, we collect artifacts every 3 months and save as record of what was done and can be referred to in case of any disputes or misunderstandings with the client.

Reviewer: Ko nên mention "any disputes or misunderstandings with the client" là lý do chính. chỗ này có thể refer để onboarding hoặc có track record để trace back lại nếu cần.

- authors: 
  - minh_cloud
  - thanh
---

### Why do we need artifacts?
- Track the project’s progress against the plan, making it easier to manage and control

> - Serve as a record of what was done and can be referred to in case of any disputes or misunderstandings with the client

Reviewer: Move to the end of the list

- Future team members can learn from past projects, understanding the decisions made, the problems faced, and how they were solved
- Smoothen the handover and onboarding process

### Artifacts Checklist
1. Backup all source codes in every 3 months
    - [ ]  Clone source code of the project to Dwarves Foundation
2. Project charter
    - [ ]  Description: What is the purpose of the project and which problem the product solve?
    - [ ]  Project scope: Which function our team involved our team?
    - [ ]  Tech stack: Which tech stack our team provide?
    - [ ]  Resource allocation: Which role is assigned to whom?
    - [ ]  Meetings: When the meeting is setup for which purpose

>     - [ ]  Changelog: Please link to the current changelog directory which record the updates of the team’s work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [ ]  Changelog: link to the current changelog directory which record the updates of the team’s work
```

    - [ ]  Communication channel
    - [ ]  Stakeholder information: Who you work with and their roles.
3. Milestone/roadmap: What would you do in the next 3 months?
4. Document
    - [ ]  High-level diagrams
        - [ ]  ERD or class diagram
        - [ ]  Component diagrams + document to explain the role of each component
        - [ ]  Infrastructure diagrams + document to explain the role of each component
    - [ ]  Flow, activity or state machine diagrams for core/complex features
    - [ ]  README

>         - [ ]  Project description
>         - [ ]  How to install & run source (should actually run source from the instruction)
>         - [ ]  How to contribute (coding convention, source structure/architect explain…)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        - [ ]  Project description
        - [ ]  How to install and run source code
        - [ ]  How to contribute (coding convention, explanation of source structure and architecture…)
```
